00:00:00
Gail Caddy was the owner of this tiny, boutique hotel in the English countryside  when she came across a strange photo. It was a photo of her hotel.  It had the same white façade, the same arched doorway, black  placard, and name — “Rock Point Inn.” …Except it wasn’t her hotel. Not quite. The one in  the photo was newly built; hers was 250 years old. She soon discovered that her entire building  — along with the fish-and-chips restaurant next door — had been carefully reproduced,  brick-by-brick, on the other side of the planet.

00:00:44
Unbeknownst to her, there were now two  Rock Point Inns: one in Lyme Regis, England — population: 3,000 — and one in the  suburbs of Shanghai — population: thirty million. And the more she learned,  the weirder things became. This, it turns out, was just one corner of  a $300 million British-themed neighborhood. There were bronze statues of Winston Churchill  and Princess Diana. There was an exact replica of a Christian church in Bristol. And there  were red telephone booths imported from London.

00:01:24
Here, less than an hour outside China’s largest  city, police officers wore royal guard uniforms. Even this was just the tip of the iceberg. The British neighborhood was actually one  of nearly a dozen separate towns — each designed, at great expense, to simulate the  experience of living in a different country. The German one, for example, is home to  Volkswagen’s Chinese headquarters and, believe it or not, was built by the  son of Hitler’s chief architect. All across China, in fact, are  hundreds of miniature — and sometimes,

00:02:01
not so miniature — Amsterdams,  Paris’, Londons, and New Yorks. You can visit Britain’s famous Tower Bridge  — complete with two extra towers — in Suzhou. If suburban McMansions and  palm trees are more your style, there’s a mock “Orange County,” outside Beijing. Hallstatt is a tiny, picturesque village in  the mountains of Austria. But you can visit an exact replica near Guangzhou. The mayor  of the real town even paid a visit in 2012. Or perhaps you prefer to live in snowy Jackson  Hole, Wyoming without ever leaving Northern China.

00:02:42
The list goes on… There’s a fake Louvre, Chrysler Building, White House, and  Versailles — to name just a few. China probably has more Eiffel Towers  than anywhere else on earth. This one looked a bit out of place at first,  but has since become more convincing. Clearly, these can’t all be the work of some  rogue city planner or eccentric millionaire. Something about the country’s political  and economic system unintentionally led to dozens of independent, yet  identical, Frances across China. That “something” begins with  the way cities earn revenue.

00:03:24
Local governments pay for most of  their own teachers and doctors and police and fire fighters — as  they do in most of the world. Unlike most countries, however,  they aren’t allowed to collect much of their own tax revenue —  most of that ends up in Beijing. This creates for each city an acute  dilemma: how to pay for everything. Luckily, they do have one powerful  weapon at their disposal: land. …All of which is owned by the government, who  can sell it to developers for 100% profit. What this means is that, to stay in the black,

00:04:02
mayors have no choice but to choose  quantity over quality. Opening a giant factory generates a massive windfall for the  city when it sells the land. But because it doesn’t generate much ongoing revenue, it  serves little purpose after it’s built. Just to keep the lights on, the city has to keep  building, expanding outward at lightning speed. Of course, this only works if someone  is willing to buy all the land. But that, until recently,  hasn’t been much of a problem… Here, China had three big things going for it:

00:04:40
One, the population was growing even  faster than developers could keep up. Between 1980 and 2000, 267,000 people were born in  China each and every week. That’s a new Buffalo, New York, or St. Louis, Missouri every seven days. At roughly one child per household,  that’s a lot of new homes. Two: hundreds of millions  of families were moving from dilapidated homes in the countryside  to shiny new apartments in the city. And three, even those who didn’t want to  become homeowners really had no choice.

00:05:20
China’s Capitalist turn at the end of the  twenty century created lots of new wealth, yet conspicuously few places to invest it. Sure, you could simply park  your money in the bank, but the government artificially  kept interest rates at or near zero. You could take it to the stock market, but  you may not have much luck there either. The Shanghai Stock Exchange has been  more-or-less flat for the last decade. Finally, strict capital controls limit how  much cash you can bring out of the country.

00:05:54
That leaves approximately one place for the  world’s largest middle class and the country with one of the highest savings rates in  the world to store its wealth: housing. Until recently, Chinese real estate  was a no-brainer. You could stuff RMB under your mattress and watch  it dwindle away or you could stick it in the one certified money printing  machine — then undefeated for decades. All of this is to say: homes have  historically sold themselves in China! But it’s one thing to sell apartments in the heart  of Shanghai or Shenzhen — China’s New York and San

00:06:33
Francisco. It’s quite another to sell them in its  equivalent of the Jersey suburbs or Inland Empire. As cities were forced to sell land further and  further from their downtown cores, developers, in turn, were forced to go to greater  and greater lengths to attract buyers. Yet China never experienced America’s  urban flight. Cities are still widely associated with wealth and  glamor, not noise and crime. Suburbs, therefore, are seen less as a  welcome escape and more as an unnatural exile. That’s where the Eiffel Towers come in.

00:07:15
Real estate agents — famously skilled at  turning 200 square-foot studios into "cozy urban sanctuaries” — likewise transformed “weird,  single-family homes in the middle-of-nowhere” into the more aspirational promise  of “living the American Dream.” It’s actually quite clever… The buyers of these properties, remember,  are just looking for a safe place to store their wealth. Since they aren’t actually  going to move here anyway, the practical realities of living in a faux-7,000-year-old  Austrian village are relatively unimportant.

00:07:52
And for developers, the European and  American themes are the perfect short-cut: they offer a ready-built architectural template,  create a spectacle that attracts attention, and allow them to capitalize on the  idealized image of an affluent “West.” Decades of rising home prices conditioned  a whole generation to see easy, guaranteed returns. Every empty field they’ve ever  seen was eventually colonized by factories; every housing complex soon sold out,  so why would these be any different? Something similar was happening in less desirable  third and fourth-tier cities across China.

00:08:36
Say you’re the mayor of Chenzhou. Its population of 4.5 million would make  it one of the biggest metropolises in Europe or the Americas. In China, it’s so  overlooked that it’s hard to find video of. There are at least 44 larger Chinese cities. So, how do you put this  relative backwater “on the map?” Well, one way is to hand a famous architect  a blank check and tell them to go wild. Clearly, they understood these  instructions. China might just be the world’s capital of “weird” architecture.

00:09:16
There’s a building shaped like a bird in  flight, a pair of pants, a ring, three men, eggs, a mountain range, the moon and the sun, an  octopus, a flower, spaceship, beehive, and forest. You name it and China probably has it. As a local bureaucrat, your incentives  were to drive short-term economic growth and quickly make a name for yourself  before being rotated to a new city. Approving that splashy new project puts  your name in the newspaper. Besides, you’ll be long gone by the time the  Orangatang-shaped hospital sits empty and unused.

00:10:03
In other words, the more outlandish, the better. One overzealous official spent one third of his  city’s entire revenue building a replica of the U.S. Capitol to serve as a government office.  Meaning, Communist Party cadres work every day inside an architectural tribute to their country’s  greatest competitor. How’s that for soft power? Of course, when everyone tries to  stand out, no one does. Inevitably, this ignites a full-blown “weirdness” arms-race. Now, to some, this is all just an amusing —  perhaps even endearing — feature of the Chinese

00:10:44
landscape. Sometimes you just stumble  into a random Stonehenge. Better than row after row of dreary Soviet-era high-rises! Xi Jinping, however, is not among them. After rising to power, Xi saw his mission as  correcting for the excesses of China’s long reform era — its rampant corruption, its uncoordinated  waste, and blind, “Western-obsessed” consumerism. “Weird” architecture was a symptom of all three. And so, in 2014, he “banned” it, in the vague, jargon-heavy way Party officials  do — by calling on cities to

00:11:27
“strengthen their cultural confidence” and  “disseminate contemporary Chinese values.” And just like that, China’s “Las  Vegas” era was officially over. But there’s one place where China’s  early-2000s penchant for the opulent, the colossal, and the garish truly lives on —  a sort of living museum of that earlier era. About 20 miles away from Hong Kong is another  “Special Administrative Region” called Macau. Macau is one of the most densely-populated and  most land-deprived cities on earth. So, naturally,

00:12:07
about 15 years ago, Las Vegas Sands’ Sheldon  Adelson — then America’s third-richest person — decided it would make the perfect place to  plop down a brand new, car-centric casino strip. The Venetian Macau is the  largest casino in the world. And, like its smaller Vegas counterpart,  includes an indoor gondola ride. Next door is The Parisian, complete —  you guessed it — with an Eiffel Tower. It’s one of the most surreal places I’ve ever  been — a fake Paris in a former Portuguese colony, culturally, largely Chinese, but not quite,  built by an American billionaire. In fact,

00:12:49
I made a whole video about it, exclusively  available on our streaming service Nebula. Nebula is also home to dozens  of other great Original series, like Lindsay Ellis’ “The Life and Death of  Family-Friendly Las Vegas” — a fascinating look at the city’s attempt  to steal Disneyland’s market. Neo has this amazing 3D tour of  the Vegas strip — and who owns it. And, if you like my videos, you’ll almost  certainly like RealLifeLore’s new Original “Mad Kings,” about the world’s most insane and  eccentric modern dictators. The first episode,

00:13:27
about the crazy life of Saddam  Hussein’s eldest son, is out now. And that’s just scratching the surface  of what Nebula has to offer. You can even give your friends guest passes so they can  watch along with you — for no extra charge. Now, normally, Nebula costs $6 a month.  But you can get it for just half that by signing up for a year with the link  on screen or in the description now. That’s just $3 a month for loads  of exclusive content you’ll love. Alternatively, click the link below  to get Nebula Lifetime for $200 off

00:14:05
(that’s 40%!) — giving you unlimited access  to everything Nebula has to offer for life.

